= Authlogic Bundle

This plugin will help you build up an authentication/authorization system easily. You can also customize it by rails built-in engines' way.

This plugin uses work flow of registration as:

1. The new user registers his/her login and email
2. System sends activation instructions mail to the user
3. The user follows up activation url in mail
4. The user chooses authentication type (password / Open ID)
5. System sends registration completion mail to the user
6. The user is been instantly logged in

The user using password authentication can also reset his/her password.

1. The user fills in his/her email in forgot password page
2. System sends password reset instruction mail to the user
3. The user follows up password reset url in mail
4. The user chooses new password
5. The user can log in with new password

The Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) is introduced, and you can design the authorization rules (DSL) in first place. Here gives sample rules.

1. The anonymous (guest role) can create a new user (customer role).
2. The logged-in user (customer role) can show and update his/her account.
3. A special user "admin" (admin role) can manage all users.

The internationalization of interface and messages are built-in with english and chinese (zh-TW/zh-CN).

== Requirements

1. rails gem (2.3.4+)
2. bcrypt-ruby gem
3. authlogic gem
4. ruby-openid gem
5. open_id_authentication plugin
6. authlogic_oid gem
7. declarative_authorization gem
8. ssl_requirement plugin
9. i18n_label plugin

for testing:
1. rspec gem
2. rspec-rails gem
3. cucumber gem
4. webrat gem
5. bmabey-email_spec gem

== Installation

If you start up a new rails application, you can

  $ rails <your-app> -m http://github.com/tsechingho/authlogic_bundle/raw/master/templates/remote.rb

If you have an existing rails application, you can

  $ cd <your-app>
  $ git submodule add git://github.com/tsechingho/authlogic_bundle.git vendor/plugins/authlogic_bundle
  $ rake rails:template LOCATION=vendor/plugins/authlogic_bundle/templates/base.rb SCM=git

If rails version >= 2.3.4, there are default data sets imported by

  $ rake db:seed

And you can login with root/root (login/password).

== Configuration

SSL will turn on in production mode and turn off in development/test mode automatically. If you want to switch manually, please set ENV['SSL'] = 'on' in environment.rb or start server with SSL variable like

  $ SSL=on script/server

== Customization

If you prepare to customize your own User model, please start by

  $ cp vendor/plugins/authlogic_bundle/app/models/user.rb app/models
  $ cp vendor/plugins/authlogic_bundle/app/models/user_session.rb app/models

Otherwise you will encounter "TypeError (can't dup NilClass)" and "ApplicationHelper" error messages.

For complicated needs, please fork and modify the whole plugin.

== Testing

If you want to run the cucumber features, you can

  $ rake authlogic_bundle:features

== Upgrades

It's supposed you should modify your existing codes by yourself with newer version of authlogic_bundle or accessory plugins if this step is needed.

If you want to update the authlogic_bundle, you can

  $ cd <your-app>/vendor/plugins/authlogic_bundle
  $ git pull origin master
  $ cd ../../..
  $ git add vendor/plugins/authlogic_bundle
  $ git commit -m 'update authlogic_bundle submodule'

If you want to update all plugins into edge, you can

  $ cd <your-app>
  $ rake rails:template LOCATION=vendor/plugins/authlogic_bundle/templates/update.rb

If you want to update all gems, you can

  $ sudo gem update

== License

Copyright (c) 2009 Tse-Ching Ho, released under the MIT license
